== How to bootstrap a project in Heroku

Clone this repository:
  git clone git@github.com:61bits/rails-heroku-bootstrap.git my_new_project
  cd my_new_project

Rename the project to a name of your choosing and commit:
  rake rename[MyNewProject]
  git add .
  git commit -am 'Renaming my project'

Create a heroku app:
  heroku create my_new_project

Bootstrap heroku addons:
  ./bootstrap_heroku.sh

Push the code to heroku:
  git push heroku master

Run the migrations:
  heroku run rake db:migrate

Restart the server:
  heroku ps:restart

=== Managing multiple environments in Heroku

If you are managing multiples environments don't forget to set the default environment:
  git config heroku.remote production
  git config heroku.remote heroku

You can create a new heroku environment with:
  heroku create my_new_project --remote production

And push with:
  git push production master

== Running the project for development

First configure your database access in:
  config/database.yml
Confer http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html#configuring-a-database if
you are having any problem.

If you are running for the first time:
  bundle install
  rake db:create
  rake db:migrate
  foreman start

Else (Ctrl-C stops the webserver):
  foreman start

== Checklist for production

=== Production services

* Amazon S3 (sys variables)
* Facebook app (sys variables)
* Final Aplication Hostname, not the something.herokuapp.com (sys variable)
* Google Analytics (sys variable)
* Add project to Google Webmasters
* Create final hostname email account and update app/mailers/contact_mailer.rb

=== Finishing touch

* Error pages (e.g. 404, 503)
* Favicons and apple-touch-icons located at public/
* Facebook thumbnails (_metatags.slim and facebook app registry)
* Check https://developers.facebook.com/tools/debug
* Add a project sitemap (http://sitemaps.org)
* Add schemas to search providers (http://schema.org/)
* Update project title in layouts and admin config/initializers/active_admin.rb
* Update public/humans.txt
* Update public/robots.txt
* Update project license on LICENSE and README.rdoc

== Tecnologies used

* Sass: http://sass-lang.com
* Compass: http://compass-style.org
* Susy: http://susy.oddbird.net
* Slim: http://slim-lang.com
* Coffeescript: http://coffeescript.org
* ActiveAdmin: http://activeadmin.info
* Mercury Editor: http://jejacks0n.github.io/mercury
* CKEditor: http://ckeditor.com
* jQuery: http://jquery.com
* Draper: https://github.com/drapergem/draper
* Factory Girl: https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl
* Rspec: http://rspec.info
* Cucumber: http://cukes.info

== Project structure revisited

The directory structure of the application:

  ├── app
  │   ├── admin
  │   ├── assets
  │   │   ├── fonts
  │   │   ├── images
  │   │   ├── javascripts
  │   │   └── stylesheets
  │   │       ├── base
  │   │       ├── layouts
  │   │       ├── modules
  │   │       ├── states
  │   │       └── themes
  │   ├── controllers
  │   ├── decorators
  │   ├── helpers
  │   ├── mailers
  │   ├── models
  │   │   └── ckeditor
  │   ├── views
  │   │   ├── admin
  │   │   ├── contact_mailer
  │   │   ├── contacts
  │   │   ├── devise
  │   │   ├── frontend
  │   │   ├── home
  │   │   ├── kss
  │   │   ├── layouts
  │   │   └── pages
  │   └── workers
  ├── config
  │   ├── environments
  │   ├── initializers
  │   └── locales
  ├── db
  ├── doc
  ├── lib
  │   └── tasks
  ├── log
  ├── public
  ├── script
  ├── spec
  │   ├── controllers
  │   ├── decorators
  │   ├── factories
  │   ├── helpers
  │   ├── lib
  │   ├── mailers
  │   ├── models
  │   ├── routing
  │   ├── support
  │   └── views
  ├── tmp
  └── vendor
      ├── assets
      │   ├── images
      │   ├── javascripts
      │   └── stylesheets
      └── plugins

app
  Holds all the code that's specific to this particular application.

app/assets
  Contains subdirectories for images, stylesheets, and JavaScript files.

app/controllers
  Holds controllers that should be named like weblogs_controller.rb for
  automated URL mapping. All controllers should descend from
  ApplicationController which itself descends from ActionController::Base.

app/models
  Holds models that should be named like post.rb. Models descend from
  ActiveRecord::Base by default.

app/views
  Holds the template files for the view that should be named like
  weblogs/index.html.erb for the WeblogsController#index action. All views use
  eRuby syntax by default.

app/views/layouts
  Holds the template files for layouts to be used with views. This models the
  common header/footer method of wrapping views. In your views, define a layout
  using the <tt>layout :default</tt> and create a file named default.html.erb.
  Inside default.html.erb, call <% yield %> to render the view using this
  layout.

app/helpers
  Holds view helpers that should be named like weblogs_helper.rb. These are
  generated for you automatically when using generators for controllers.
  Helpers can be used to wrap functionality for your views into methods.

config
  Configuration files for the Rails environment, the routing map, the database,
  and other dependencies.

db
  Contains the database schema in schema.rb. db/migrate contains all the
  sequence of Migrations for your schema.

doc
  This directory is where your application documentation will be stored when
  generated using <tt>rake doc:app</tt>

lib
  Application specific libraries. Basically, any kind of custom code that
  doesn't belong under controllers, models, or helpers. This directory is in
  the load path.

public
  The directory available for the web server. Also contains the dispatchers and the
  default HTML files. This should be set as the DOCUMENT_ROOT of your web
  server.

script
  Helper scripts for automation and generation.

spec
  Rspec test folder.

vendor
  External libraries that the application depends on. Also includes the plugins
  subdirectory. If the app has frozen rails, those gems also go here, under
  vendor/rails/. This directory is in the load path.

== System variables used

The variables used by are present in your /.env

Those are your local variables, to update them on heroku just:
  heroku config:set WEB_CONCURRENCY=4 APP_HOSTNAME=myproject.com

WEB_CONCURRENCY=3
  Number of extra processes unicorn will spawn.
RACK_ENV=none
  For unicorn
RAILS_ENV=development
  Devolpment env by default
APP_HOSTNAME=localhost
  The hostname of your app, bootstrap_heroku.sh changes this to your heroku app host.
GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_ID=UA-00000000-0
  Google analytics id
FACEBOOK_APP_ID=237947652982771
  Facebook app id
FACEBOOK_SECRET=9d86008f6d8be5d68c8501662b707008
  Facebook secret
S3_KEY=0000
  Amazon S3 key
S3_SECRET=000
  Amazon S3 secret
S3_REGION=000
  Amazon S3 region
S3_BUCKET=000
  Amazon S3 bucket


== License

MIT License Copyright (C) 2013

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
